# DBCOMSOC

Copyright 2019 Vishal Chakraborty. All rights reserved.
Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style license that can be found in the LICENSE.txt file at the root of the project.

## Implementing The Possible Winner Problem
We reduce the PW problem to Integer Linear Programming and SAT. 

__Basic notation__

Number of candidates _m_

Number of voters _n_

### Experiments
We evaluate our system with two kinds of experiments. 
#### No Preprocessing
For every input, a new model is created from scratch and optimised (solved).
Each run of the program comprises of the following three steps-
```

1. Read the input file containing the patial profile
2. Create a model
    1. Initialise variables
    2. Transitivity constraints
    3. Antisymetric constraints
    4. Partial profile constraints
    5. PW definition constraints
3. Optimise (solve) the model
```
#### Preprocessing
In this case we create partial models for various parameter settings 

>__m__ = 6, 10, 25, 50, 75, 100
>
> __n__ = 10, 500, 1000, 2500, 5000, 10000.

This is possible because the transitivity constraints and antisymetry constraints are _independent_ of the input partial profile and the distinguished candidate. Therefore, we can preprocess the file thereby saving time whilst solving a problem instance. The preprocessing step consists of the following steps 

```
1. Create a partial model
    1. Initialise variables
    2. Transitivity constraints
    3. Antisymetric constraints
2. Save model to disk
```

When we want to create a model for a specific input partial profile and a distinguished candidate, we do the following -
```
1. Load the corresponsing partial model from disk 
2. Update the model
    1. Partial Profile Constraints
    2. PW definition constraint
3. Optimise (solve) the model
```

Each kind is evaluated with two ILP solvers - Gurobi and CPLEX.

---

### Datasets

All experiments willbe run on three synthetically generated datasets

>1. Dataset 1 (Kunal B. R.)
>2. Dataset 2 - RSM+ (Théo D.)
>3. Dataset 3 - Top k (Théo D.)

## Directory Tree

>Possible Winner
>>Gurobi
>>
>>_Contains all scripts that uses the Gurobi optimiser_
>>> `gurobi_install.md`  Instructions on how to install Gurobi.
>>>
>>>__Preprocessing__
>>>
>>>_Experiments with preprocessing_
>>>>
>>>> `Input_Files` directory containing all the input files (partial profiles).
>>>>
>>>> `gen_G_model.py` script to create a preprocessed model.
>>>>
>>>> `bulk_gen_G.py`  script which repeatedly calls `gen_G_model.py` to generate preprocessed models of various configurations.
>>>>
>>>> `loadG_pw_ilp.py` script which loads a preprocessed model from disk, updates it with the input profile.
>>>>
>>>> `test_loadG_pw_ilp.py` script which repreatedly calls `loadG_pw_ilp.py` on all the input profiles in `Input_Files`.
>>>
>>>__No Preprocessing__
>>>
>>>_Experiments with preprocessing_
>>>>
>>>> `DataFiles` directory containing all the input files (partial profiles).
>>>>
>>>> `Data Analysis` directory containing ipynb for generating graphs from the csv file generated by `test_ILP.py`.
>>>>
>>>> `pw_ilp.py` - script to run the ILP.
>>>>
>>>> `test_ILP.py` - script to call `pw_ilp.py` repeatedly, on all files in `DataFiles`.
>>>
>>
>>CPLEX
>>>__Preprocessing__
>>>
>>>_Experiments with preprocessing_
>>>
>>>__No Preprocessing__
>>>
>>>_Experiments with preprocessing_
>>>
>>Glucose
